[Music]
what's going on here they desecrated
Brighton's premier flat ground area they
must be building a statue of me
the only explanation really we could do
this somewhere else hi I'm dr. tech and
welcome to the tech files a freestyle
forensic investigation into the origin
of Street maneuvers and like diagnosis
murder no diagnosis no murder
[Music]
so for the uninitiated what exactly is
freestyle well in a nutshell it's a flat
band based approach to skateboarding and
it would seem that the majority of
technical street maneuvers can be traced
back to the dark art of freestyle
skateboarding
[Music]
in this series we'll be blowing the lid
off the real trick history's nervous
party line Patsy stuff we'll be
delivering you the facts no matter who
we upset
[Music]
so in today's episode we're going to be
exposing the truth about a street staple
in freestyle classic the 360 flip the
360 flip has many cool street names Trez
tray resume Airwolf my personal favorite
henry winkler covered in bees
unbeknownst to most people its original
name was old swirly Joe it's true look I
found it written on this way Liam skate
I really fix old swirly
[Music]
Tripps inventor one Robbie Nolan was
accidentally inspired to do the maneuver
while getting the fright of his life
when he witnessed Joe the local hobo
curling one off in the corner of his
favorite car park while crouching for a
kickflip courtside Joe's foul act of
defecation in a circular pattern which
caused him to spasm of fright which in
turn sent the kickflip into a 360 degree
spin and like a caterpillar turning into
a butterfly
the Tramp having a boob turned into the
360 flip we tried to contact old swirly
Joe for his side of the story but to no
avail
our crack team of composite artists have
created the sketch of what you might
look like now if you have any
information of his whereabouts bury a
potato in the usual spot so Mullen
continue to perpetuate the 360 flip but
no one really seems to care to most it
was just another dorky freestyle trick
invented by another dorky freestyler
after a while even started to kick it
double so people might notice the flip
but it was to no avail and the 360 flip
wouldn't largely unnoticed
it wasn't until Jason Lee started making
them a little bit more manly on Street
boards that the general skate population
cottoned onto their awesome potential in
the pioneering days in the spirit of old
swirly jug just getting it around in one
rotation was an achievement and like the
cane toad infestation within a few years
these blighters were all over the show
as people started to adapt them and
refine them into all walks of skating it
wasn't until the late 90s that we saw
the emergence of trail egg
now what is tre lake in essence is an
over styled version of the 360
incorporating either a star junk
possibly stealth Benny so far research
has been inconclusive on this matter
although a hybrid species has been
spotted in rural areas of Australia so
from its humble beginnings as all swirly
Joe's with triumph and transformation to
360 flip it has become an essential part
of every skaters repertoire like a
well-managed drug habit or a stylish
replace bandana it's a veritable
rags-to-riches tale
[Music]
this brings us onto one didn't quite
catch on 360 under flip or to give it
its technical name carbon Jones hot
lunch
[Music]
the main ingredient for this particular
hot lunch is an augmentation of classic
360 pushing when setting up you don't
have to worry too much about your front
foot as it's just getting out of the way
you want your back foot tucked away into
the pocket of the tail so that they're
easily deployed inserting that sneaky
under flip setting the board in motion
you want to just start with the shove it
and have your toes loaded up on point
like a ballerina as the board comes
round dip your toes down and give them a
lift the board will already be very
close to your foot so lifting will set
the under flip emotional to matically
the momentum of the under that carries
the board around the extra 180 degrees
have a look for the grip tape and when
you're rolling away you've no usual
trick
[Music]
as with many pot lunches you can mix and
match you ingredients to come up with
new dishes mmm hot lunch that was the
360 under flip join me next week where
I'll be wearing a vision trench coat and
some of those funny glasses that just
off to the side
was passed on to rodney mullen when
first watching it was infected with the
heelflip and introduced it to the world
crab thing you know I can water I give
me the cue and I'm just sitting there
doing that